1979 life on earth makes it onto our
screens it is a groundbreaking series
it's a 13-part sees it was hugely
popular it made you a household name
what was the inspiration for that series
why did you passionately want to make it
well while we are when I was running BBC
two we started a new kind of documentary
which was a 13-part one-hour program
which set out to more or less say by
implication to the viewers look if you
want to know about this that you've
often heard about stay with us for 13
hours week by week and at the end of it
we'll have given you a reasonably
responsible alpha and what it's about
but I knew you see that the the subject
that you could really make a
mind-blowing series about would be the
history of life on Earth from the very
simplest to the primates like ourselves
and that could easily fall into 13 parts
and I thought by golly that's a thing
I'd like to do my my worry was that
while I was the director program that
some other parish it was good to go
through and say what about this
wonderful idea of doing the history of
life and I couldn't in all conscience
and then say no but fortunately nobody
did so as soon as I resigned I suggested
the BBC that maybe this would be
something they might consider it was a
huge hit with viewers it was full of
extraordinary moments but of course the
most celebrated moment from life on
earth is I don't even have to say what
it is is this magical sequence here
let's watch it there is more meaning
neutral understanding and exchanging
with plants with the gorillas
Cinelli I'm Adam are now and this is how
they spend most of their time lounging
on the ground grooming one another
sometimes they even allow others to join
in
listen to this one this is a pigeon oh
this is a horse